sdk/data/azcosmos/.specs/ReadItems.md, before:

# ReadItems (ReadMany via Per-Partition Queries) — Design Specification

## 1. What the Python Code Does Today

The Python Cosmos DB SDK implements `read_items` (a.k.a. "read many") in two cooperating modules:

### Entry Point — `_cosmos_client_connection.py` → `read_items()`

- Accepts a list of `(item_id, partition_key_value)` tuples, request options, an optional `ThreadPoolExecutor`, and `max_concurrency`.
- Fetches the container's `PartitionKeyDefinition` (paths, kind, version).
- Delegates to `ReadItemsHelperSync`.

### Core Logic — `_read_items_helper.py` → `ReadItemsHelperSync`

#### 1.1 Partition Items by Physical Range

`_partition_items_by_range()`:

1. Groups input items by their **logical partition key value** (deduplicating range lookups).
2. For each unique PK value, computes the Effective Partition Key (EPK) range and resolves the overlapping **physical partition key range** via the routing map provider.
3. Produces `dict[range_id → list[(original_index, item_id, pk_value)]]`.

#### 1.2 Chunk by `max_items_per_query` (1 000)

`_create_query_chunks()`:

- Each physical range's item list is split into chunks of ≤ 1 000.
- Each chunk becomes a unit of work: `{range_id: [(idx, id, pk), …]}`.

#### 1.3 Execute Chunks Concurrently

`_execute_with_executor()`:

- Submits one `_execute_query_chunk_worker` per chunk to a `ThreadPoolExecutor`.
- Collects results preserving original input order (via the `original_index`).
- Sums `x-ms-request-charge` across all responses.

#### 1.4 Per-Chunk Worker

`_execute_query_chunk_worker()`:

| Chunk Size | Strategy |
|---|---|
| **1 item** | Single **point read** (`ReadItem`). 404 → `None`, item silently skipped in output. |
| **> 1 item** | Constructs a **parameterized SQL query** and runs it via `QueryItems`. |

#### 1.5 Query Construction (`_query_builder.py`)

Three query shapes are chosen depending on the items in the chunk:

| Condition | Query Shape | Example |
|---|---|---|
| PK path is `/id` **and** every pk value == item id | **ID-only IN** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id IN (@param_id0, @param_id1, …)` |
| All items share the **same logical PK value** | **PK = @pk AND id IN (…)** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.pk = @pk AND c.id IN (@id0, @id1, …)` |
| Items span **multiple logical PK values** within the same physical range | **OR-of-conjunctions** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE (c.id = @param_id0 AND c.pk = @param_pk00) OR (c.id = @param_id1 AND c.pk = @param_pk10) …` |

Special handling for undefined/empty/null partition key values → `IS_DEFINED(field) = false`.

All queries use **parameterized values** to avoid injection and enable plan caching.

The query is sent with the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header set to the physical range, so the Gateway routes it to the correct replica.

#### 1.6 Result Assembly

- Returned items are re-sorted into the original input order.
- Missing items (404s and non-matching query results) are silently omitted.
- The aggregate `x-ms-request-charge` is returned.

---

## 2. What the Go Code Does Today

### 2.1 Public API

`ContainerClient.ReadManyItems(ctx, []ItemIdentity, *ReadManyOptions) → (ReadManyItemsResponse, error)`

Defined in `cosmos_container.go` (line 456).

### 2.2 Strategy Selection

| Condition | Path |
|---|---|
| `ReadManyOptions.QueryEngine != nil` | `executeReadManyWithEngine` — delegates to the external native query engine (CGo / WASM). |
| Otherwise (default) | `executeReadManyWithPointReads` — N individual point reads. |

### 2.3 `executeReadManyWithPointReads` (current default)

In `cosmos_container_read_many.go`:

- Creates a fixed-size goroutine pool (size = `min(concurrency, len(items))`).
- Each goroutine calls `ContainerClient.ReadItem` for a single item.
- 404 errors → item silently skipped.
- Any other error → cancels remaining work and returns the error.
- Results are collected in input order.
- Total `RequestCharge` is summed from individual responses.

**Limitation:** For N items this issues N separate HTTP round-trips. The RU cost is N × (point-read cost) and latency is dominated by the parallelism limit.

### 2.4 `executeReadManyWithEngine`

In `cosmos_container_read_many.go`:

- Fetches container properties (to get `PartitionKeyDefinition`) and raw partition key ranges.
- Builds item identities with JSON-serialized PK values.
- Creates a `ReadManyPipeline` via the external query engine.
- Runs the pipeline: the engine generates per-range `QueryRequest`s.
- `runEngineRequests` (in `cosmos_container_query_engine.go`) executes those requests concurrently via `sendQueryRequest`, piping results back through `ProvideData`.
- Returns merged items and total RU charge.

**Limitation:** Requires a native query engine binary (CGo / WASM). Not available in all environments.

### 2.5 Existing Types

| Type | File | Purpose |
|---|---|---|
| `ItemIdentity` | `cosmos_container.go` | `{ID string, PartitionKey PartitionKey}` |
| `ReadManyOptions` | `cosmos_read_many_request_options.go` | Session, consistency, dedicated gateway, query engine, max concurrency |
| `ReadManyItemsResponse` | `cosmos_query_response.go` | `{RequestCharge float32, Items [][]byte}` |
| `QueryParameter` | `cosmos_query.go` | `{Name string, Value any}` |
| `partitionKeyRange` | `cosmos_partition_key_range.go` | Physical range metadata |
| `PartitionKeyDefinition` | `partition_key_definition.go` | Paths, Kind, Version |

---

## 3. What the Go Code Should Do (Proposed: `executeReadManyWithQueries`)

**Replace** the point-read strategy (`executeReadManyWithPointReads`) with a new query-based strategy — `executeReadManyWithQueries` — that mirrors the Python logic. The old point-read function and all code exclusively supporting it are **deleted**.

### 3.1 High-Level Algorithm

```
ReadManyItems(ctx, items, opts)
  ├─ if QueryEngine != nil → executeReadManyWithEngine (unchanged)
  └─ else → executeReadManyWithQueries (NEW, replaces executeReadManyWithPointReads)
```

### 3.2 Steps

1. **Fetch container properties** → obtain `PartitionKeyDefinition` (paths, kind).
2. **Fetch partition key ranges** → `getPartitionKeyRanges(ctx, nil)`.
3. **Group items by physical partition range:**
   - For each unique logical PK value, compute the EPK hash and find the overlapping physical range using the `minInclusive`/`maxExclusive` intervals from step 2.
   - Build `map[rangeID] → []indexedItem` where `indexedItem = {originalIndex, itemID, pkValue}`.
4. **Chunk per-range lists** at `maxItemsPerQuery = 1000`.
5. **For each chunk, build a parameterized query** using the three-shape strategy from the Python `_QueryBuilder`:
   - **ID-only IN** — when PK path is `/id` and every PK value == item ID.
   - **PK + ID IN** — when all items in the chunk share a single logical PK.
   - **OR-of-conjunctions** — general multi-PK case.
6. **Execute chunks concurrently** using a goroutine pool (size = `determineConcurrency(opts.MaxConcurrency)`).
   - Each goroutine sends a `sendQueryRequest` with `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header targeting the physical range.
   - Paginate via continuation token until exhausted.
7. **Collect results:**
   - Match returned `id` fields back to original indices.
   - Sort by original index.
   - Sum `x-ms-request-charge`.
8. **Return `ReadManyItemsResponse`.**

### 3.3 EPK Hashing

The Python SDK computes the EPK via `_get_epk_range_for_partition_key`, which uses the V2 MurmurHash-based effective partition key algorithm. The Go SDK must implement the same hashing or use the Gateway's partition key range resolution.

**Recommended approach:** Use the existing `PartitionKey.toJsonString()` method and the Gateway-returned `partitionKeyRange.minInclusive`/`maxExclusive` boundaries. Each `PartitionKey` value maps to exactly one physical range. We can compute the effective partition key hash client-side (V2 hash) and binary-search the sorted range list, **or** we can simply send each query as a cross-partition query scoped to the known partition key value via the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header (letting the Gateway route it).

**Simplest correct approach for V1:** Set the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header (PK value as JSON array) on each per-partition query. The Gateway resolves the physical range automatically. This avoids implementing EPK hashing in Go and is what the existing `NewQueryItemsPager` already does. Chunking is still done by logical PK grouping (items with equal PK value go together).

If performance is a concern (too many round-trips when multiple logical PKs map to the same physical range), a follow-up can add client-side EPK hashing to coalesce by physical range. The Python SDK already does this optimisation.

### 3.4 Single-Item Optimisation

When a chunk contains exactly 1 item, issue a `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id = @id AND c.pk = @pk` query (or equivalent) rather than a point read. This keeps a single, uniform code path — all items flow through query construction and `sendQueryRequest`. No point-read logic is needed.

### 3.5 Error Handling

- Query returning fewer items than requested → silently omit missing items (mirrors Python behavior).
- Transient errors → bubble up immediately (cancel remaining work, consistent with current behavior).

---

## 4. Files to Create or Modify

### 4.1 New File: `cosmos_query_builder.go`

Contains the Go port of `_QueryBuilder`:

```go
// queryBuilder builds parameterized SQL queries for read-many operations.
type queryBuilder struct{}

func (qb queryBuilder) isIDPartitionKeyQuery(items []ItemIdentity, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) bool
func (qb queryBuilder) isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery(items []indexedItem) bool
func (qb queryBuilder) buildIDInQuery(items []indexedItem) (string, []QueryParameter)
func (qb queryBuilder) buildPKAndIDInQuery(items []indexedItem, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) (string, []QueryParameter)
func (qb queryBuilder) buildParameterizedQueryForItems(items []indexedItem, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) (string, []QueryParameter, error)
func (qb queryBuilder) getFieldExpression(path string) string
```

All functions are unexported (package-internal).

### 4.2 New File: `cosmos_query_builder_test.go`

Unit tests for every query builder function (no emulator needed):

- Various partition key shapes (single, hierarchical, `/id`-based).
- Edge cases: special characters in PK paths, null/undefined PK values, empty items list.
- Verify parameterized output matches expected SQL and parameter lists.

### 4.3 Modified File: `cosmos_container_read_many.go`

**Delete** `executeReadManyWithPointReads` entirely.

Add `executeReadManyWithQueries`:

```go
func (c *ContainerClient) executeReadManyWithQueries(
    ctx context.Context,
    items []ItemIdentity,
    readManyOptions *ReadManyOptions,
    operationContext pipelineRequestOptions,
) (ReadManyItemsResponse, error)
```

Implementation details:
- Calls `c.Read(ctx, nil)` to get `PartitionKeyDefinition`.
- Groups items by logical PK value into chunks.
- For each chunk, builds query via `queryBuilder`.
- Sends queries concurrently with `sendQueryRequest`, setting:
  - `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header for PK-scoped routing.
  - `x-ms-documentdb-query-enablecrosspartition: true` when the query spans multiple PKs within a physical range (the OR-of-conjunctions case).
  - `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header for physical-range-scoped routing when EPK hashing is available.
- Handles continuation tokens (pagination) for each query.
- Re-sorts results into original input order.
- Returns aggregated `ReadManyItemsResponse`.

Internal helper types:

```go
type indexedItem struct {
    originalIndex int
    id            string
    pk            PartitionKey
}
```

### 4.4 Modified File: `cosmos_container.go`

In `ReadManyItems()` method, change the default strategy:

```go
// Current:
return c.executeReadManyWithPointReads(itemIdentities, readManyOptions, operationContext, ctx)

// Proposed:
return c.executeReadManyWithQueries(ctx, itemIdentities, readManyOptions, operationContext)
```

`executeReadManyWithPointReads` is deleted — there is no fallback to point reads.

### 4.5 Modified File: `cosmos_read_many_request_options.go`

No structural changes needed. The existing `ReadManyOptions` fields (SessionToken, ConsistencyLevel, DedicatedGatewayRequestOptions, MaxConcurrency) are already sufficient. The `QueryEngine` field continues to select the engine-based path.

### 4.6 Optional Future File: `cosmos_epk_hash.go`

If physical-range coalescing is desired (grouping multiple logical PKs that land on the same physical range into a single query), implement the V2 MurmurHash EPK computation. This is **not required for V1** but enables the full Python-equivalent optimisation.

---

## 5. Test Cases

All emulator tests follow the existing pattern in `emulator_cosmos_read_many_items_test.go`.

### 5.1 Unit Tests (`cosmos_query_builder_test.go`)

These do **not** require the emulator.

| # | Test Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
| U1 | `TestQueryBuilder_IDPartitionKey_Simple` | PK path is `/id`, 3 items where pk == id → produces `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id IN (…)` |
| U2 | `TestQueryBuilder_IDPartitionKey_Mismatch` | PK path is `/id` but pk ≠ id for one item → falls through to general query |
| U3 | `TestQueryBuilder_SingleLogicalPartition` | 5 items, all same PK value → produces `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.myPk = @pk AND c.id IN (…)` |
| U4 | `TestQueryBuilder_MultipleLogicalPartitions` | 3 items, 2 different PKs → produces OR-of-conjunctions |
| U5 | `TestQueryBuilder_NestedPKPath` | PK path `/address/zipCode` → field expression `c["address"]["zipCode"]` |
| U6 | `TestQueryBuilder_NonIdentifierPKPath` | PK path `/my-pk` → field expression `c["my-pk"]` |
| U7 | `TestQueryBuilder_NullPartitionKey` | Item with `NullPartitionKey` → `IS_DEFINED(c.pk) = false` clause |
| U8 | `TestQueryBuilder_HierarchicalPK` | Multi-path PK definition → multiple conditions per item in OR clause |
| U9 | `TestQueryBuilder_EmptyItems` | Empty items list → `isIDPartitionKeyQuery` returns false, `isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery` returns false |
| U10 | `TestQueryBuilder_SingleItem` | Single item → `isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery` returns false (handled by point-read path) |
| U11 | `TestQueryBuilder_GetFieldExpression` | Various paths: `/pk`, `/a/b/c`, `/non-ident` |

### 5.2 Emulator Integration Tests (`emulator_cosmos_read_many_items_test.go`)

These require the Cosmos DB emulator. The existing tests (`TestReadMany_NilItemsSlice`, `TestReadMany_ReadSeveralItems`, `TestReadMany_NilIDReturnsError`, `TestReadMany_PartialFailure`, `TestReadMany_WithQueryEngine_*`) already cover the basic happy-path, empty-input, validation, and partial-miss scenarios. They serve as **regression tests** and must continue to pass after the strategy change.

One new integration test is added to exercise the fan-out behavior that distinguishes the query-based approach from point reads:

| # | Test Name | Setup | Action | Assertions |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| E1 | `TestReadManyWithQueries_MultipleLogicalPKs_SamePhysicalRange` | Container with `/pk` PK. Insert several items whose distinct logical PK values hash to the **same** physical partition key range (use the emulator's single-range default, or pick PK values known to collide). | ReadMany all items in a single call. | All items returned, correct content. Verifies: (a) in V1 (per-logical-PK routing), each logical PK produces its own query and all succeed; (b) in V2 (per-EPK-range routing), the items are coalesced into a single OR-of-conjunctions query targeting the physical range, and all still succeed. Positive `RequestCharge`. |

---

## 6. Implementation Notes

### 6.1 Query Routing Headers

For the per-partition query approach, each query request must include:

- `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey`: The JSON-serialized PK value (e.g., `["myPkValue"]`). This lets the Gateway route the query to the correct physical partition without client-side EPK hashing.
- `x-ms-documentdb-query-enablecrosspartition: true`: Required for the OR-of-conjunctions case where items span multiple logical PKs.
- `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid`: Alternative to the PK header; directly specifies the physical range. Use this if/when EPK hashing is implemented.

### 6.2 Continuation Token Handling

Each `sendQueryRequest` may return a continuation token. The worker must loop, re-issuing the query with the continuation, until it is empty. This is especially important for large chunks near the 1000-item limit.

### 6.3 Concurrency Model

Reuse the existing `determineConcurrency` function and the goroutine-pool pattern from `runEngineRequests`.

### 6.4 Result Matching

Query results are matched back to the original input by the `id` field in the returned JSON document. The `originalIndex` is used to restore input order.

### 6.5 RU Cost Benefit

Per the Cosmos DB pricing model, a query returning N items costs less than N individual point reads when N > ~3, especially for small documents. The batched query approach also reduces HTTP round-trips, improving latency.

---

## 7. Open Questions

1. **V1 routing strategy:** Should V1 use `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` (simpler, no EPK hashing needed, but one query per logical PK) or invest in EPK hashing upfront (one query per physical range, matching Python)?
2. **Duplicate item IDs:** If the same `(id, pk)` appears twice in the input, should the output contain one or two copies?
3. **Order guarantee:** The Python SDK preserves input order. Should Go do the same? (Recommendation: yes.)
4. **Max items per query:** Is 1000 the correct limit for Go, or should it be configurable?

Commit message:

azcosmos: update ReadItems spec for query-based ReadMany with no ordering guarantee
- Replace point-read strategy description with query-based approach (V1: LPK grouping)
- Remove originalIndex from indexedItem type
- Explicitly document that returned item order is unspecified
- Resolve open question #3: Go SDK does not guarantee input order
- Update result matching section to reflect no-ordering contract

sdk/data/azcosmos/.specs/ReadItems.md, after:

# ReadItems (ReadMany via Per-Partition Queries) — Design Specification

## 1. What the Python Code Does Today

The Python Cosmos DB SDK implements `read_items` (a.k.a. "read many") in two cooperating modules:

### Entry Point — `_cosmos_client_connection.py` → `read_items()`

- Accepts a list of `(item_id, partition_key_value)` tuples, request options, an optional `ThreadPoolExecutor`, and `max_concurrency`.
- Fetches the container's `PartitionKeyDefinition` (paths, kind, version).
- Delegates to `ReadItemsHelperSync`.

### Core Logic — `_read_items_helper.py` → `ReadItemsHelperSync`

#### 1.1 Partition Items by Physical Range

`_partition_items_by_range()`:

1. Groups input items by their **logical partition key value** (deduplicating range lookups).
2. For each unique PK value, computes the Effective Partition Key (EPK) range and resolves the overlapping **physical partition key range** via the routing map provider.
3. Produces `dict[range_id → list[(original_index, item_id, pk_value)]]`.

#### 1.2 Chunk by `max_items_per_query` (1 000)

`_create_query_chunks()`:

- Each physical range's item list is split into chunks of ≤ 1 000.
- Each chunk becomes a unit of work: `{range_id: [(idx, id, pk), …]}`.

#### 1.3 Execute Chunks Concurrently

`_execute_with_executor()`:

- Submits one `_execute_query_chunk_worker` per chunk to a `ThreadPoolExecutor`.
- Collects results preserving original input order (via the `original_index`).
- Sums `x-ms-request-charge` across all responses.

#### 1.4 Per-Chunk Worker

`_execute_query_chunk_worker()`:

| Chunk Size | Strategy |
|---|---|
| **1 item** | Single **point read** (`ReadItem`). 404 → `None`, item silently skipped in output. |
| **> 1 item** | Constructs a **parameterized SQL query** and runs it via `QueryItems`. |

#### 1.5 Query Construction (`_query_builder.py`)

Three query shapes are chosen depending on the items in the chunk:

| Condition | Query Shape | Example |
|---|---|---|
| PK path is `/id` **and** every pk value == item id | **ID-only IN** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id IN (@param_id0, @param_id1, …)` |
| All items share the **same logical PK value** | **PK = @pk AND id IN (…)** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.pk = @pk AND c.id IN (@id0, @id1, …)` |
| Items span **multiple logical PK values** within the same physical range | **OR-of-conjunctions** | `SELECT * FROM c WHERE (c.id = @param_id0 AND c.pk = @param_pk00) OR (c.id = @param_id1 AND c.pk = @param_pk10) …` |

Special handling for undefined/empty/null partition key values → `IS_DEFINED(field) = false`.

All queries use **parameterized values** to avoid injection and enable plan caching.

The query is sent with the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header set to the physical range, so the Gateway routes it to the correct replica.

#### 1.6 Result Assembly

- Returned items are re-sorted into the original input order. *(Note: the Go SDK does **not** replicate this guarantee — see §3.2 step 7.)*
- Missing items (404s and non-matching query results) are silently omitted.
- The aggregate `x-ms-request-charge` is returned.

---

## 2. What the Go Code Does Today

### 2.1 Public API

`ContainerClient.ReadManyItems(ctx, []ItemIdentity, *ReadManyOptions) → (ReadManyItemsResponse, error)`

Defined in `cosmos_container.go` (line 456).

### 2.2 Strategy Selection

| Condition | Path |
|---|---|
| `ReadManyOptions.QueryEngine != nil` | `executeReadManyWithEngine` — delegates to the external native query engine (CGo / WASM). |
| Otherwise (default) | `executeReadManyWithPointReads` — N individual point reads. |

### 2.3 `executeReadManyWithPointReads` (current default)

In `cosmos_container_read_many.go`:

- Creates a fixed-size goroutine pool (size = `min(concurrency, len(items))`).
- Each goroutine calls `ContainerClient.ReadItem` for a single item.
- 404 errors → item silently skipped.
- Any other error → cancels remaining work and returns the error.
- Results are collected in input order.
- Total `RequestCharge` is summed from individual responses.

**Limitation:** For N items this issues N separate HTTP round-trips. The RU cost is N × (point-read cost) and latency is dominated by the parallelism limit.

### 2.4 `executeReadManyWithEngine`

In `cosmos_container_read_many.go`:

- Fetches container properties (to get `PartitionKeyDefinition`) and raw partition key ranges.
- Builds item identities with JSON-serialized PK values.
- Creates a `ReadManyPipeline` via the external query engine.
- Runs the pipeline: the engine generates per-range `QueryRequest`s.
- `runEngineRequests` (in `cosmos_container_query_engine.go`) executes those requests concurrently via `sendQueryRequest`, piping results back through `ProvideData`.
- Returns merged items and total RU charge.

**Limitation:** Requires a native query engine binary (CGo / WASM). Not available in all environments.

### 2.5 Existing Types

| Type | File | Purpose |
|---|---|---|
| `ItemIdentity` | `cosmos_container.go` | `{ID string, PartitionKey PartitionKey}` |
| `ReadManyOptions` | `cosmos_read_many_request_options.go` | Session, consistency, dedicated gateway, query engine, max concurrency |
| `ReadManyItemsResponse` | `cosmos_query_response.go` | `{RequestCharge float32, Items [][]byte}` |
| `QueryParameter` | `cosmos_query.go` | `{Name string, Value any}` |
| `partitionKeyRange` | `cosmos_partition_key_range.go` | Physical range metadata |
| `PartitionKeyDefinition` | `partition_key_definition.go` | Paths, Kind, Version |

---

## 3. What the Go Code Should Do (Proposed: `executeReadManyWithQueries`)

**Replace** the point-read strategy (`executeReadManyWithPointReads`) with a new query-based strategy — `executeReadManyWithQueries` — that mirrors the Python logic. The old point-read function and all code exclusively supporting it are **deleted**.

### 3.1 High-Level Algorithm

```
ReadManyItems(ctx, items, opts)
  ├─ if QueryEngine != nil → executeReadManyWithEngine (unchanged)
  └─ else → executeReadManyWithQueries (NEW, replaces executeReadManyWithPointReads)
```

### 3.2 Steps

1. **Fetch container properties** → obtain `PartitionKeyDefinition` (paths, kind).
2. **Fetch partition key ranges** → `getPartitionKeyRanges(ctx, nil)`.
3. **Group items by physical partition range:**
   - For each unique logical PK value, compute the EPK hash and find the overlapping physical range using the `minInclusive`/`maxExclusive` intervals from step 2.
   - Build `map[rangeID] → []indexedItem` where `indexedItem = {originalIndex, itemID, pkValue}`.
4. **Chunk per-range lists** at `maxItemsPerQuery = 1000`.
5. **For each chunk, build a parameterized query** using the three-shape strategy from the Python `_QueryBuilder`:
   - **ID-only IN** — when PK path is `/id` and every PK value == item ID.
   - **PK + ID IN** — when all items in the chunk share a single logical PK.
   - **OR-of-conjunctions** — general multi-PK case.
6. **Execute chunks concurrently** using a goroutine pool (size = `determineConcurrency(opts.MaxConcurrency)`).
   - Each goroutine sends a `sendQueryRequest` with `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header targeting the physical range.
   - Paginate via continuation token until exhausted.
7. **Collect results:**
   - Gather all returned items from all chunks.
   - **No ordering guarantee:** the order of items in the response is unspecified and callers must not rely on it matching the input order. This is an explicit API contract difference from the Python SDK.
   - Missing items (not found by any query) are silently omitted.
   - Sum `x-ms-request-charge`.
8. **Return `ReadManyItemsResponse`.**

### 3.3 EPK Hashing

The Python SDK computes the EPK via `_get_epk_range_for_partition_key`, which uses the V2 MurmurHash-based effective partition key algorithm. The Go SDK must implement the same hashing or use the Gateway's partition key range resolution.

**Recommended approach:** Use the existing `PartitionKey.toJsonString()` method and the Gateway-returned `partitionKeyRange.minInclusive`/`maxExclusive` boundaries. Each `PartitionKey` value maps to exactly one physical range. We can compute the effective partition key hash client-side (V2 hash) and binary-search the sorted range list, **or** we can simply send each query as a cross-partition query scoped to the known partition key value via the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header (letting the Gateway route it).

**Simplest correct approach for V1:** Set the `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header (PK value as JSON array) on each per-partition query. The Gateway resolves the physical range automatically. This avoids implementing EPK hashing in Go and is what the existing `NewQueryItemsPager` already does. Chunking is still done by logical PK grouping (items with equal PK value go together).

If performance is a concern (too many round-trips when multiple logical PKs map to the same physical range), a follow-up can add client-side EPK hashing to coalesce by physical range. The Python SDK already does this optimisation.

### 3.4 Single-Item Optimisation

When a chunk contains exactly 1 item, issue a `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id = @id AND c.pk = @pk` query (or equivalent) rather than a point read. This keeps a single, uniform code path — all items flow through query construction and `sendQueryRequest`. No point-read logic is needed.

### 3.5 Error Handling

- Query returning fewer items than requested → silently omit missing items (mirrors Python behavior).
- Transient errors → bubble up immediately (cancel remaining work, consistent with current behavior).

---

## 4. Files to Create or Modify

### 4.1 New File: `cosmos_query_builder.go`

Contains the Go port of `_QueryBuilder`:

```go
// queryBuilder builds parameterized SQL queries for read-many operations.
type queryBuilder struct{}

func (qb queryBuilder) isIDPartitionKeyQuery(items []ItemIdentity, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) bool
func (qb queryBuilder) isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery(items []indexedItem) bool
func (qb queryBuilder) buildIDInQuery(items []indexedItem) (string, []QueryParameter)
func (qb queryBuilder) buildPKAndIDInQuery(items []indexedItem, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) (string, []QueryParameter)
func (qb queryBuilder) buildParameterizedQueryForItems(items []indexedItem, pkDef PartitionKeyDefinition) (string, []QueryParameter, error)
func (qb queryBuilder) getFieldExpression(path string) string
```

All functions are unexported (package-internal).

### 4.2 New File: `cosmos_query_builder_test.go`

Unit tests for every query builder function (no emulator needed):

- Various partition key shapes (single, hierarchical, `/id`-based).
- Edge cases: special characters in PK paths, null/undefined PK values, empty items list.
- Verify parameterized output matches expected SQL and parameter lists.

### 4.3 Modified File: `cosmos_container_read_many.go`

**Delete** `executeReadManyWithPointReads` entirely.

Add `executeReadManyWithQueries`:

```go
func (c *ContainerClient) executeReadManyWithQueries(
    ctx context.Context,
    items []ItemIdentity,
    readManyOptions *ReadManyOptions,
    operationContext pipelineRequestOptions,
) (ReadManyItemsResponse, error)
```

Implementation details:
- Calls `c.Read(ctx, nil)` to get `PartitionKeyDefinition`.
- Groups items by logical PK value into chunks.
- For each chunk, builds query via `queryBuilder`.
- Sends queries concurrently with `sendQueryRequest`, setting:
  - `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` header for PK-scoped routing.
  - `x-ms-documentdb-query-enablecrosspartition: true` when the query spans multiple PKs within a physical range (the OR-of-conjunctions case).
  - `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid` header for physical-range-scoped routing when EPK hashing is available.
- Handles continuation tokens (pagination) for each query.
- Returns aggregated `ReadManyItemsResponse`. **No ordering guarantee** — items may appear in any order.

Internal helper types:

```go
type indexedItem struct {
    id            string
    pk            PartitionKey
}
```

### 4.4 Modified File: `cosmos_container.go`

In `ReadManyItems()` method, change the default strategy:

```go
// Current:
return c.executeReadManyWithPointReads(itemIdentities, readManyOptions, operationContext, ctx)

// Proposed:
return c.executeReadManyWithQueries(ctx, itemIdentities, readManyOptions, operationContext)
```

`executeReadManyWithPointReads` is deleted — there is no fallback to point reads.

### 4.5 Modified File: `cosmos_read_many_request_options.go`

No structural changes needed. The existing `ReadManyOptions` fields (SessionToken, ConsistencyLevel, DedicatedGatewayRequestOptions, MaxConcurrency) are already sufficient. The `QueryEngine` field continues to select the engine-based path.

### 4.6 Optional Future File: `cosmos_epk_hash.go`

If physical-range coalescing is desired (grouping multiple logical PKs that land on the same physical range into a single query), implement the V2 MurmurHash EPK computation. This is **not required for V1** but enables the full Python-equivalent optimisation.

---

## 5. Test Cases

All emulator tests follow the existing pattern in `emulator_cosmos_read_many_items_test.go`.

### 5.1 Unit Tests (`cosmos_query_builder_test.go`)

These do **not** require the emulator.

| # | Test Name | Description |
|---|---|---|
| U1 | `TestQueryBuilder_IDPartitionKey_Simple` | PK path is `/id`, 3 items where pk == id → produces `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.id IN (…)` |
| U2 | `TestQueryBuilder_IDPartitionKey_Mismatch` | PK path is `/id` but pk ≠ id for one item → falls through to general query |
| U3 | `TestQueryBuilder_SingleLogicalPartition` | 5 items, all same PK value → produces `SELECT * FROM c WHERE c.myPk = @pk AND c.id IN (…)` |
| U4 | `TestQueryBuilder_MultipleLogicalPartitions` | 3 items, 2 different PKs → produces OR-of-conjunctions |
| U5 | `TestQueryBuilder_NestedPKPath` | PK path `/address/zipCode` → field expression `c["address"]["zipCode"]` |
| U6 | `TestQueryBuilder_NonIdentifierPKPath` | PK path `/my-pk` → field expression `c["my-pk"]` |
| U7 | `TestQueryBuilder_NullPartitionKey` | Item with `NullPartitionKey` → `IS_DEFINED(c.pk) = false` clause |
| U8 | `TestQueryBuilder_HierarchicalPK` | Multi-path PK definition → multiple conditions per item in OR clause |
| U9 | `TestQueryBuilder_EmptyItems` | Empty items list → `isIDPartitionKeyQuery` returns false, `isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery` returns false |
| U10 | `TestQueryBuilder_SingleItem` | Single item → `isSingleLogicalPartitionQuery` returns false (handled by point-read path) |
| U11 | `TestQueryBuilder_GetFieldExpression` | Various paths: `/pk`, `/a/b/c`, `/non-ident` |

### 5.2 Emulator Integration Tests (`emulator_cosmos_read_many_items_test.go`)

These require the Cosmos DB emulator. The existing tests (`TestReadMany_NilItemsSlice`, `TestReadMany_ReadSeveralItems`, `TestReadMany_NilIDReturnsError`, `TestReadMany_PartialFailure`, `TestReadMany_WithQueryEngine_*`) already cover the basic happy-path, empty-input, validation, and partial-miss scenarios. They serve as **regression tests** and must continue to pass after the strategy change.

One new integration test is added to exercise the fan-out behavior that distinguishes the query-based approach from point reads:

| # | Test Name | Setup | Action | Assertions |
|---|---|---|---|---|
| E1 | `TestReadManyWithQueries_MultipleLogicalPKs_SamePhysicalRange` | Container with `/pk` PK. Insert several items whose distinct logical PK values hash to the **same** physical partition key range (use the emulator's single-range default, or pick PK values known to collide). | ReadMany all items in a single call. | All items returned, correct content. Verifies: (a) in V1 (per-logical-PK routing), each logical PK produces its own query and all succeed; (b) in V2 (per-EPK-range routing), the items are coalesced into a single OR-of-conjunctions query targeting the physical range, and all still succeed. Positive `RequestCharge`. |

---

## 6. Implementation Notes

### 6.1 Query Routing Headers

For the per-partition query approach, each query request must include:

- `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey`: The JSON-serialized PK value (e.g., `["myPkValue"]`). This lets the Gateway route the query to the correct physical partition without client-side EPK hashing.
- `x-ms-documentdb-query-enablecrosspartition: true`: Required for the OR-of-conjunctions case where items span multiple logical PKs.
- `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkeyrangeid`: Alternative to the PK header; directly specifies the physical range. Use this if/when EPK hashing is implemented.

### 6.2 Continuation Token Handling

Each `sendQueryRequest` may return a continuation token. The worker must loop, re-issuing the query with the continuation, until it is empty. This is especially important for large chunks near the 1000-item limit.

### 6.3 Concurrency Model

Reuse the existing `determineConcurrency` function and the goroutine-pool pattern from `runEngineRequests`.

### 6.4 Result Matching

Query results are collected from all concurrent chunk responses. There is **no guarantee** that the returned items appear in the same order as the input `ItemIdentity` slice. Callers who need a specific order must sort the results themselves (e.g., by matching the `id` field in the returned JSON).

### 6.5 RU Cost Benefit

Per the Cosmos DB pricing model, a query returning N items costs less than N individual point reads when N > ~3, especially for small documents. The batched query approach also reduces HTTP round-trips, improving latency.

---

## 7. Open Questions

1. **V1 routing strategy:** Should V1 use `x-ms-documentdb-partitionkey` (simpler, no EPK hashing needed, but one query per logical PK) or invest in EPK hashing upfront (one query per physical range, matching Python)?
2. **Duplicate item IDs:** If the same `(id, pk)` appears twice in the input, should the output contain one or two copies?
3. **Order guarantee:** The Python SDK preserves input order. The Go SDK explicitly does **not** guarantee order — this is a documented API contract. *(Resolved.)*
4. **Max items per query:** Is 1000 the correct limit for Go, or should it be configurable?
