eng/tools/generator/README.md, before:

# Generator

This is a command line tool for generating new releases and managing automation for `github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go`.

## Overview

The generator tool provides several commands to support the Azure SDK for Go development lifecycle:

- **Environment**: Check and validate development environment prerequisites
- **Generate**: Generate individual SDK packages from TypeSpec specifications
- **Issue Management**: Parse GitHub release request issues into configuration
- **Release Generation**: Generate new SDK releases from TypeSpec or Swagger specifications  
- **Automation**: Process batch SDK generation for CI/CD pipelines
- **Refresh**: Regenerate all existing SDK packages
- **Templates**: Scaffold the package for onboard services

## Commands

This CLI tool provides the following commands:

### The `environment` command

The `environment` command checks and validates environment prerequisites for Azure Go SDK generation. It verifies the installation and versions of required tools and can automatically install missing TypeSpec tools.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator environment [flags]
```

**Flags:**
- `--auto-install`: Automatically install missing TypeSpec tools (default: true)
- `-o, --output`: Output format, either "text" or "json" (default: "text")

**What it checks:**
- **Go**: Minimum version 1.23
- **Node.js**: Minimum version 20.0.0
- **TypeSpec compiler**: `@typespec/compiler` package
- **TypeSpec client generator CLI**: `@azure-tools/typespec-client-generator-cli` package
- **GitHub CLI**: Installation and authentication status

**Examples:**
```bash
# Check environment with auto-install (default)
generator environment

# Check environment without auto-installing missing tools
generator environment --auto-install=false

# Get results in JSON format
generator environment --output json

# Get help
generator environment --help
```

**Sample Output:**
```
All environment checks are satisfied! ✓

✓ Go: Go version 1.24 is installed ✓
✓ Node.js: Node.js version 22.17.1 is installed ✓
✓ TypeSpec Compiler: TypeSpec compiler is installed ✓
✓ TypeSpec Client Generator CLI: TypeSpec client generator CLI is installed ✓
✓ GitHub CLI: GitHub CLI 2.40.1 is installed ✓
✓ GitHub CLI Authentication: GitHub CLI is authenticated ✓

✓ Automatically installed: TypeSpec compiler, TypeSpec client generator CLI
```

### The `generate` command

The `generate` command generates Azure Go SDK packages from TypeSpec specifications. It can work with either a direct path to a TypeSpec configuration file or a GitHub PR link.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator generate <sdk-repo-path> <spec-repo-path> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `sdk-repo-path`: Path to the local Azure SDK for Go repository
- `spec-repo-path`: Path to the local Azure REST API Specs repository

**Flags:**
- `--tsp-config`: Direct path to tspconfig.yaml file (relative to spec repo root)
- `--github-pr`: GitHub PR link to extract TypeSpec configuration from
- `--debug`: Enable debug output
- `-o, --output`: Output format, either "text" or "json" (default: "text")

**Note:** You must provide exactly one of `--tsp-config` or `--github-pr`.

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate from direct TypeSpec config path
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --tsp-config specification/cognitiveservices/OpenAI.Inference/tspconfig.yaml

# Generate from GitHub PR
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --github-pr https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/pull/12345

# Generate with debug output and JSON format
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --tsp-config specification/service/namespace/tspconfig.yaml \
  --debug --output json
```

**What it does:**
1. Validates the provided repository paths
2. Resolves the TypeSpec configuration (checking out PR branch if needed using GitHub CLI)
3. Generates the Go SDK using the TypeSpec-Go emitter
4. Reports generation results including package info, version, and breaking changes

**Sample Output:**
```
✓ SDK generation completed successfully!

Package Name: armcognitiveservices
Package Path: /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/resourcemanager/cognitiveservices/armcognitiveservices
Spec Folder: /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs/specification/cognitiveservices/OpenAI.Inference
Version: 1.0.0
Generation Type: mgmt
✓ Has Breaking Changes: No

Changelog:
### Features Added
- New client `armcognitiveservices.ClientFactory` which is a client factory used to create any client in this module
```

### The `issue` command

The `issue` command fetches release request issues from `github.com/Azure/sdk-release-request/issues` and parses them into configuration that other commands consume. The configuration outputs to stdout.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator issue [flags]
```

**Flags:**
- `-t, --token`: Personal access token for GitHub authentication
- `-u, --username`: GitHub username 
- `-p, --password`: GitHub password
- `--otp`: Two-factor authentication code
- `--include-data-plane`: Include data plane RP requests
- `-l, --skip-validate`: Skip validation for readme files and tags
- `--request-issues`: Specify release request IDs to parse

**Authentication:**
You need to provide authentication to query GitHub issues. Either:
1. Use a personal access token: `-t $YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`
2. Use username/password (and OTP if needed): `-u username -p password --otp code`

**Example:**
```bash
generator issue -t $YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN > sdk-release.json
```

**Output Format:**
The command outputs a JSON configuration:
```json
{
  "track2Requests": {
    "specification/network/resource-manager/readme.md": {
      "package-2020-12-01": [
        {
          "targetDate": "2021-02-11T00:00:00Z",
          "requestLink": "https://github.com/Azure/sdk-release-request/issues/1212"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "typespecRequests": {}
}
```

### The `automation-v2` command

The `automation-v2` command processes batch SDK generation for automation pipelines. This command is designed to run in the root directory of azure-sdk-for-go and handles multiple SDK generations in a single execution.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator automation-v2 <generate input filepath> <generate output filepath>
```

**Arguments:**
- `generate input filepath`: Path to the generation input JSON file
- `generate output filepath`: Path where generation output JSON will be written

**What it does:**
1. Reads the input configuration file containing specification details
2. Processes multiple TypeSpec projects and README files
3. Generates SDKs for all specified services
4. Writes comprehensive output including generation results and errors
5. Handles batch operations for CI/CD automation pipelines

**Input Format:**
The input file should contain:
```json
{
  "specFolder": "/path/to/azure-rest-api-specs",
  "headSha": "commit-hash",
  "repoHttpsUrl": "https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs",
  "relatedTypeSpecProjectFolder": ["specification/service/data-plane"],
  "relatedReadmeMdFiles": ["specification/service/resource-manager/readme.md"],
  "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
  "sdkReleaseType": "stable"
}
```

**Output Format:**
The command generates a JSON output file with generation results:
```json
{
  "packages": [
    {
      "packageName": "armservice",
      "path": "sdk/resourcemanager/service/armservice",
      "readmeMd": "specification/service/resource-manager/readme.md",
      "changelog": "### Features Added\n- Initial release",
      "breaking": false
    }
  ],
  "errors": []
}
```

**Examples:**
```bash
# Process automation input file
generator automation-v2 ./input.json ./output.json

# Typical CI/CD usage
generator automation-v2 /tmp/generation-input.json /tmp/generation-output.json
```

### The `release-v2` command

The `release-v2` command generates individual SDK releases for specific resource providers. It creates new SDK packages or updates existing ones with new API versions.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator release-v2 <azure-sdk-for-go directory> <azure-rest-api-specs directory> <rp-name/config-file> [namespaceName]
```

**Arguments:**
- `azure-sdk-for-go directory`: Path to azure-sdk-for-go repository or commit ID
- `azure-rest-api-specs directory`: Path to azure-rest-api-specs repository or commit ID  
- `rp-name/config-file`: Resource provider name or JSON config file from `issue` command
- `namespaceName`: Namespace name (default: "arm" + rp-name)

**Flags:**
- `--package-title`: Package title for the release
- `--sdk-repo`: SDK repository URL (default: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go)
- `--spec-repo`: Spec repository URL (default: https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs)
- `--spec-rp-name`: Swagger spec RP name (default: same as rp-name)
- `--release-date`: Release date for changelog
- `--skip-create-branch`: Skip creating release branch
- `--skip-generate-example`: Skip generating examples
- `--package-config`: Additional package configuration
- `-t, --token`: Personal access token for GitHub operations
- `--tsp-config`: Path to TypeSpec tspconfig.yaml
- `--tsp-option`: TypeSpec-go emit options (format: option1=value1;option2=value2)
- `--tsp-client-option`: tsp-client options (e.g., --save-inputs, --debug)

**What it does:**
1. Creates or updates SDK packages for specified resource providers
2. Generates Go client code from TypeSpec or Swagger specifications
3. Creates appropriate changelogs and documentation
4. Handles versioning and breaking change detection
5. Optionally creates release branches for the changes

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate release for a specific RP
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs network

# Generate with custom TypeSpec config
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs network \
  --tsp-config specification/network/tspconfig.yaml

# Generate from release request config file
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs config.json

# Skip branch creation and examples
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs compute \
  --skip-create-branch --skip-generate-example
```

### The `refresh-v2` command

The `refresh-v2` command regenerates all existing SDK packages using the latest specifications. This is useful for bulk updates across multiple packages.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator refresh-v2 <azure-sdk-for-go directory> <azure-rest-api-specs directory> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `azure-sdk-for-go directory`: Path to azure-sdk-for-go repository
- `azure-rest-api-specs directory`: Path to azure-rest-api-specs repository

**Flags:**
- `--sdk-repo`: SDK repository URL
- `--spec-repo`: Spec repository URL  
- `--release-date`: Release date for changelog
- `--skip-create-branch`: Skip creating release branch
- `--skip-generate-example`: Skip generating examples
- `--rps`: Comma-separated list of RPs to refresh (default: all)
- `--update-spec-version`: Whether to update commit ID (default: true)

**What it does:**
1. Discovers all existing SDK packages in the repository
2. Regenerates each package using current specifications
3. Updates version numbers and changelogs as needed
4. Handles batch processing of multiple resource providers
5. Optionally creates release branches for all changes

**Examples:**
```bash
# Refresh all existing packages
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs

# Refresh specific resource providers only
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --rps network,compute,storage

# Refresh without creating branches or examples
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --skip-create-branch --skip-generate-example

# Refresh with custom release date
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --release-date 2024-01-15
```

### The `template` command

The `template` command generates package templates and scaffolding for new SDK packages. It creates the necessary directory structure and boilerplate code to onboard new services to the Azure SDK for Go.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator template <service-name> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `service-name`: Name of the service to create a template for

**Flags:**
- `--output-dir`: Output directory for the generated template (default: current directory)
- `--package-name`: Custom package name (default: derived from service name)
- `--namespace`: Namespace for the service (default: arm + service name)
- `--data-plane`: Generate data plane template instead of management plane
- `--force`: Overwrite existing files if they exist

**What it does:**
1. Creates the standard Azure SDK for Go package directory structure
2. Generates boilerplate Go files with proper package structure
3. Creates example files and test scaffolding
4. Sets up proper module configuration and dependencies
5. Includes standard documentation templates

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate a management plane template for a new service
generator template myservice

# Generate a data plane template
generator template myservice --data-plane

# Generate template with custom package name and output directory
generator template myservice --package-name armmyservice --output-dir ./sdk/resourcemanager/myservice

# Force overwrite existing files
generator template myservice --force
```

Commit message:

Add build cmd into generator tool and add back force stable flag (#25570)
* add build cmd

* addback force stable version flag

* add changelog

* add cli config

* update readme

* copilot review

---------

Co-authored-by: tadelesh <chenjieshi@microsoft.com>

eng/tools/generator/README.md, after:

# Generator

This is a command line tool for generating new releases and managing automation for `github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go`.

## Overview

The generator tool provides several commands to support the Azure SDK for Go development lifecycle:

- **Environment**: Check and validate development environment prerequisites
- **Generate**: Generate individual SDK packages from TypeSpec specifications
- **Issue Management**: Parse GitHub release request issues into configuration
- **Release Generation**: Generate new SDK releases from TypeSpec or Swagger specifications  
- **Automation**: Process batch SDK generation for CI/CD pipelines
- **Refresh**: Regenerate all existing SDK packages
- **Templates**: Scaffold the package for onboard services

## Commands

This CLI tool provides the following commands:

### The `environment` command

The `environment` command checks and validates environment prerequisites for Azure Go SDK generation. It verifies the installation and versions of required tools and can automatically install missing TypeSpec tools.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator environment [flags]
```

**Flags:**
- `--auto-install`: Automatically install missing TypeSpec tools (default: true)
- `-o, --output`: Output format, either "text" or "json" (default: "text")

**What it checks:**
- **Go**: Minimum version 1.23
- **Node.js**: Minimum version 20.0.0
- **TypeSpec compiler**: `@typespec/compiler` package
- **TypeSpec client generator CLI**: `@azure-tools/typespec-client-generator-cli` package
- **GitHub CLI**: Installation and authentication status

**Examples:**
```bash
# Check environment with auto-install (default)
generator environment

# Check environment without auto-installing missing tools
generator environment --auto-install=false

# Get results in JSON format
generator environment --output json

# Get help
generator environment --help
```

**Sample Output:**
```
All environment checks are satisfied! ✓

✓ Go: Go version 1.24 is installed ✓
✓ Node.js: Node.js version 22.17.1 is installed ✓
✓ TypeSpec Compiler: TypeSpec compiler is installed ✓
✓ TypeSpec Client Generator CLI: TypeSpec client generator CLI is installed ✓
✓ GitHub CLI: GitHub CLI 2.40.1 is installed ✓
✓ GitHub CLI Authentication: GitHub CLI is authenticated ✓

✓ Automatically installed: TypeSpec compiler, TypeSpec client generator CLI
```

### The `generate` command

The `generate` command generates Azure Go SDK packages from TypeSpec specifications. It can work with either a direct path to a TypeSpec configuration file or a GitHub PR link.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator generate <sdk-repo-path> <spec-repo-path> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `sdk-repo-path`: Path to the local Azure SDK for Go repository
- `spec-repo-path`: Path to the local Azure REST API Specs repository

**Flags:**
- `--tsp-config`: Direct path to tspconfig.yaml file (relative to spec repo root)
- `--github-pr`: GitHub PR link to extract TypeSpec configuration from
- `--debug`: Enable debug output
- `-o, --output`: Output format, either "text" or "json" (default: "text")

**Note:** You must provide exactly one of `--tsp-config` or `--github-pr`.

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate from direct TypeSpec config path
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --tsp-config specification/cognitiveservices/OpenAI.Inference/tspconfig.yaml

# Generate from GitHub PR
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --github-pr https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs/pull/12345

# Generate with debug output and JSON format
generator generate /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --tsp-config specification/service/namespace/tspconfig.yaml \
  --debug --output json
```

**What it does:**
1. Validates the provided repository paths
2. Resolves the TypeSpec configuration (checking out PR branch if needed using GitHub CLI)
3. Generates the Go SDK using the TypeSpec-Go emitter
4. Reports generation results including package info, version, and breaking changes

**Sample Output:**
```
✓ SDK generation completed successfully!

Package Name: armcognitiveservices
Package Path: /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/resourcemanager/cognitiveservices/armcognitiveservices
Spec Folder: /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs/specification/cognitiveservices/OpenAI.Inference
Version: 1.0.0
Generation Type: mgmt
✓ Has Breaking Changes: No

Changelog:
### Features Added
- New client `armcognitiveservices.ClientFactory` which is a client factory used to create any client in this module
```

### The `issue` command

The `issue` command fetches release request issues from `github.com/Azure/sdk-release-request/issues` and parses them into configuration that other commands consume. The configuration outputs to stdout.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator issue [flags]
```

**Flags:**
- `-t, --token`: Personal access token for GitHub authentication
- `-u, --username`: GitHub username 
- `-p, --password`: GitHub password
- `--otp`: Two-factor authentication code
- `--include-data-plane`: Include data plane RP requests
- `-l, --skip-validate`: Skip validation for readme files and tags
- `--request-issues`: Specify release request IDs to parse

**Authentication:**
You need to provide authentication to query GitHub issues. Either:
1. Use a personal access token: `-t $YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN`
2. Use username/password (and OTP if needed): `-u username -p password --otp code`

**Example:**
```bash
generator issue -t $YOUR_PERSONAL_ACCESS_TOKEN > sdk-release.json
```

**Output Format:**
The command outputs a JSON configuration:
```json
{
  "track2Requests": {
    "specification/network/resource-manager/readme.md": {
      "package-2020-12-01": [
        {
          "targetDate": "2021-02-11T00:00:00Z",
          "requestLink": "https://github.com/Azure/sdk-release-request/issues/1212"
        }
      ]
    }
  },
  "typespecRequests": {}
}
```

### The `automation-v2` command

The `automation-v2` command processes batch SDK generation for automation pipelines. This command is designed to run in the root directory of azure-sdk-for-go and handles multiple SDK generations in a single execution.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator automation-v2 <generate input filepath> <generate output filepath>
```

**Arguments:**
- `generate input filepath`: Path to the generation input JSON file
- `generate output filepath`: Path where generation output JSON will be written

**What it does:**
1. Reads the input configuration file containing specification details
2. Processes multiple TypeSpec projects and README files
3. Generates SDKs for all specified services
4. Writes comprehensive output including generation results and errors
5. Handles batch operations for CI/CD automation pipelines

**Input Format:**
The input file should contain:
```json
{
  "specFolder": "/path/to/azure-rest-api-specs",
  "headSha": "commit-hash",
  "repoHttpsUrl": "https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs",
  "relatedTypeSpecProjectFolder": ["specification/service/data-plane"],
  "relatedReadmeMdFiles": ["specification/service/resource-manager/readme.md"],
  "apiVersion": "2023-01-01",
  "sdkReleaseType": "stable"
}
```

**Output Format:**
The command generates a JSON output file with generation results:
```json
{
  "packages": [
    {
      "packageName": "armservice",
      "path": "sdk/resourcemanager/service/armservice",
      "readmeMd": "specification/service/resource-manager/readme.md",
      "changelog": "### Features Added\n- Initial release",
      "breaking": false
    }
  ],
  "errors": []
}
```

**Examples:**
```bash
# Process automation input file
generator automation-v2 ./input.json ./output.json

# Typical CI/CD usage
generator automation-v2 /tmp/generation-input.json /tmp/generation-output.json
```

### The `release-v2` command

The `release-v2` command generates individual SDK releases for specific resource providers. It creates new SDK packages or updates existing ones with new API versions.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator release-v2 <azure-sdk-for-go directory> <azure-rest-api-specs directory> <rp-name/config-file> [namespaceName]
```

**Arguments:**
- `azure-sdk-for-go directory`: Path to azure-sdk-for-go repository or commit ID
- `azure-rest-api-specs directory`: Path to azure-rest-api-specs repository or commit ID  
- `rp-name/config-file`: Resource provider name or JSON config file from `issue` command
- `namespaceName`: Namespace name (default: "arm" + rp-name)

**Flags:**
- `--package-title`: Package title for the release
- `--sdk-repo`: SDK repository URL (default: https://github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go)
- `--spec-repo`: Spec repository URL (default: https://github.com/Azure/azure-rest-api-specs)
- `--spec-rp-name`: Swagger spec RP name (default: same as rp-name)
- `--release-date`: Release date for changelog
- `--skip-create-branch`: Skip creating release branch
- `--skip-generate-example`: Skip generating examples
- `--package-config`: Additional package configuration
- `-t, --token`: Personal access token for GitHub operations
- `--force-stable-version`: Force generation of stable SDK versions even when input files contain preview API versions. The tag must not contain preview when using this flag
- `--tsp-config`: Path to TypeSpec tspconfig.yaml
- `--tsp-option`: TypeSpec-go emit options (format: option1=value1;option2=value2)
- `--tsp-client-option`: tsp-client options (e.g., --save-inputs, --debug)

**What it does:**
1. Creates or updates SDK packages for specified resource providers
2. Generates Go client code from TypeSpec or Swagger specifications
3. Creates appropriate changelogs and documentation
4. Handles versioning and breaking change detection
5. Optionally creates release branches for the changes

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate release for a specific RP
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs network

# Generate with custom TypeSpec config
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs network \
  --tsp-config specification/network/tspconfig.yaml

# Generate from release request config file
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs config.json

# Skip branch creation and examples
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs compute \
  --skip-create-branch --skip-generate-example

# Force stable version generation even with preview input files
generator release-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs network \
  --force-stable-version
```

### The `refresh-v2` command

The `refresh-v2` command regenerates all existing SDK packages using the latest specifications. This is useful for bulk updates across multiple packages.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator refresh-v2 <azure-sdk-for-go directory> <azure-rest-api-specs directory> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `azure-sdk-for-go directory`: Path to azure-sdk-for-go repository
- `azure-rest-api-specs directory`: Path to azure-rest-api-specs repository

**Flags:**
- `--sdk-repo`: SDK repository URL
- `--spec-repo`: Spec repository URL  
- `--release-date`: Release date for changelog
- `--skip-create-branch`: Skip creating release branch
- `--skip-generate-example`: Skip generating examples
- `--rps`: Comma-separated list of RPs to refresh (default: all)
- `--update-spec-version`: Whether to update commit ID (default: true)

**What it does:**
1. Discovers all existing SDK packages in the repository
2. Regenerates each package using current specifications
3. Updates version numbers and changelogs as needed
4. Handles batch processing of multiple resource providers
5. Optionally creates release branches for all changes

**Examples:**
```bash
# Refresh all existing packages
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs

# Refresh specific resource providers only
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --rps network,compute,storage

# Refresh without creating branches or examples
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --skip-create-branch --skip-generate-example

# Refresh with custom release date
generator refresh-v2 /path/to/azure-sdk-for-go /path/to/azure-rest-api-specs \
  --release-date 2024-01-15
```

### The `template` command

The `template` command generates package templates and scaffolding for new SDK packages. It creates the necessary directory structure and boilerplate code to onboard new services to the Azure SDK for Go.

**Usage:**
```bash
generator template <service-name> [flags]
```

**Arguments:**
- `service-name`: Name of the service to create a template for

**Flags:**
- `--output-dir`: Output directory for the generated template (default: current directory)
- `--package-name`: Custom package name (default: derived from service name)
- `--namespace`: Namespace for the service (default: arm + service name)
- `--data-plane`: Generate data plane template instead of management plane
- `--force`: Overwrite existing files if they exist

**What it does:**
1. Creates the standard Azure SDK for Go package directory structure
2. Generates boilerplate Go files with proper package structure
3. Creates example files and test scaffolding
4. Sets up proper module configuration and dependencies
5. Includes standard documentation templates

**Examples:**
```bash
# Generate a management plane template for a new service
generator template myservice

# Generate a data plane template
generator template myservice --data-plane

# Generate template with custom package name and output directory
generator template myservice --package-name armmyservice --output-dir ./sdk/resourcemanager/myservice

# Force overwrite existing files
generator template myservice --force
```
